Automated Teller Machine- (ATM)

An automated teller machine (ATM) or cash machine (in British English) is an electronic telecommunications devicethat enables customers of financial institutions to perform
financial transactions, such as cash withdrawals, deposits, funds transfers, balance inquiries or account information inquiries, at any time and without the need for direct
interaction with bank staff.
Using an ATM, customers can access their bank deposit or credit accounts in order to make a variety of financial transactions, most notably cash withdrawals and balance checking
, as well as transferring credit to and from mobile phones. ATMs can also be used to withdraw cash in a foreign country. If the currency being withdrawn from the ATM is differen
t from that in which the bank account is denominated, the money will be converted at the financial institution's exchange rate.[10] Customers are typically identified by insertin
g a plastic ATM card (or some other acceptable payment card) into the ATM, with authentication being by the customer entering a personal identification number (PIN),
which must match the PIN stored in the chip on the card (if the card is so equipped), or in the issuing financial institution's 
database.
                                 
                         ATM CARD  It is a plastic ATM card with a magnetic strip.  It contains a unique card number and identity information.  It is also known as 
                               cash cards, bank card, client card, key card.  This card issued by bank.
6. The First ATM Machine
7. COMPONENTS OF ATM
8. CARD READER  If there will be no card reader, then ATM card can not be read so no transaction can be done by machine.  ATM card is required to swipe through this card reader slot. After swiping card it captures the account information through magnetic stripe of ATM.  After retrieving the correct information of your account, card reader send this information to the host processor for further process
Working An ATM is simply a data terminal with two input and four output devices. Like any other data terminal, the ATM has to connect to, and communicate through, a host processor.  The host processor is analogous to an Internet service provider (ISP) in that it is the gateway through which all the various ATM networks become available to the cardholder (the person wanting the cash).  Most host processors can support either leased-line or dial-up machines. Leased line machines connect directly to the host processor through a four-wire, point-topoint dedicated telephone line


         #ADVANTAGES v/s DISADVANTAGE
         
          You can withdraw cash at any time, day or night. The banks don’t need to be open.  ATMs offer the convenience of multiple locations.
          You can withdraw cash at any bank that is part of the system to which your ATM card is linked.  Your ATM card is protected by a PIN, keeping your money safe. 
           You don’t need to fill out withdrawal and deposit slips as is required at the bank.  ATMs are faster than going to the bank—no long lines. 
          You can withdraw cash at ATMs in foreign countries.  ATM may be off-line (system down).  You may forget your PIN number. 
           Risk of robbery when you leave the ATM.  The ATM can break down or run out of cash.  Fees charged to use ATMs of other banks can become expensive.
          
          # SECURITY 
          
         Modern ATM physical security concentrates on denying the use of the money inside the machine to a thief, by means of techniques such as dye markers and smoke canisters.
         This change in emphasis has meant that ATMs are now frequently found free-standing in places like shops, rather than mounted into walls.
          ATM transactions are usually encrypted with DES but most transaction processors will require the use of the more secure Triple DES by 2005. 
          But still a number of complaint s of frauds is coming which will be soon get solved.
         
         
